---
title: August 2023
---

# Release Notes August 2023 (2023-08-08)

:::danger
This release contains **breaking changes**
:::

See TypeSpec Core [release notes](https://microsoft.github.io/typespec/release-notes/release-2023-08-08)

## New Features

### `@azure-tools/typespec-autorest` New Features

- Annotate long-running operations with \"x-ms-long-running-operation\" extension.
- Add interpolation support of `emitter-output-dir` for the `arm-types-dir` emitter option.
- Add support for `@info` decorator providing the ability to specify the additional fields from openapi info object.

### `@azure-tools/typespec-azure-core` New Features

- Add new properties to `LroMetadata` returned from `getLroMetadata`
- Update ResourceCreateOrReplace template to include StatusMonitor information.
- Update `CustomPage` to generate an informative model name on instantiation
- Add conceptual documentation on custom LRO patterns in Azure.Core

### `@azure-tools/typespec-azure-resource-manager` New Features

- Allow shared libraries of ARM types and operations
- Allow override of arm provider namespace
- Add descriptions for `ArmResourceCreateOrUpdate` responses to indicate that an `OK` response indicates and update ans a `Created` response indicates a newly created resource.
- Add new template `ArmResourceCreateOrReplaceSync` that returns `OK` and `Accepted` responses for synchronous PUT requests.
- Add template alias `ArmResourceCreateOrReplaceAsync` for consistent naming of recommended templates for `PUT` operations.

### `@azure-tools/typespec-autorest` Bug Fixes

- Fix: Apply `@minItems` and `@maxItems` decorators on model arrays.

### `@azure-tools/typespec-azure-core` Bug Fixes

- Fix LRO status header property detection for `Location` headers

### `@azure-tools/typespec-azure-resource-manager` Bug Fixes

- Fix `ArmTagsPatchAsync` with a default value for the second (unused) parameter.

### `@azure-tools/typespec-client-generator-core` Bug Fixes

- add transitivity support for `@include`
- "Fix the `getEmitterTargetName` function to use the real name of the emitter

## Breaking Changes

- There are breaking changes in the TypeSpec core compiler, see [the release notes](https://microsoft.github.io/typespec/release-notes/release-2023-08-08) for details.
